# Grapevine Disease Detection
This repository contains the code for [my paper](https://github.com/rajarshi-mandal/grapevine-disease-detection/blob/main/Research%20Paper.pdf) titled "Vineyard Vigilance: Harnessing Deep Learning for Grapevine Disease Detection."

### Abstract
The Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) estimates that 20 to 40 percent of crops produced around the world are lost to pests, costing $220 billion dollars annually. With a high nutritional and medicinal value, grapes are one of the fruits that society depends on. Most industrialized grapevine orchards currently rely on human vision for disease detection, which causes a significant lag in the tracking of grapevine diseases. This results in poor crop yields and fruit quality. Automating grapevine leaf disease detection using machine learning will lead to sustainable farming. Deep learning, a branch of machine learning, is well-suited for learning from image data. Convolutional Neural Networks (CNN), a type of deep learning model, are employed to accurately classify healthy and disease-affected grapevine leaf images. A baseline CNN model is developed along with other CNN models, namely DenseNet121, EfficientNetB7, MobileNetV2, ResNet50, and VGG16. A max-voting ensemble that includes the most accurate CNN models is then deployed on the web through a website. Consequently, grapevine farmers and other users can detect the three common grapevine leaf diseases – black rot, Esca, and leaf blight, as well as healthy leaves by uploading their own images from the orchard.

### Dataset
The [original dataset](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/rm1000/grape-disease-dataset-original) used for this project contained four classes (black rot, ESCA, leaf blight, and healthy) with about 2,000 training images and 500 testing images each. After performing data preprocessing and augmentation, the [new dataset](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/rm1000/augmented-grape-disease-detection-dataset) has been uploaded to Kaggle for the community to access.
